On top of the A-levels I am studying I have completed an EPQ project where I was able to decide my own goal and work towards it over the course of a year. I taught me a lot about time management as I was the only one responsible for the results of my project so I had to learn to pour a steady amount of hours into the project, which was difficult at first but now it's a skill that I value. Since I was the only one working on it I had to manage my own project as well, which also seemed daunting at first but I decided to keep organised from the start because I knew it would help me in the future, I didn't want to take the lazy approach and create more work for me down the line. I had to do a lot of research and problem solving on my own because my goal was to procedurally generate a building, I was unfamiliar with the software I was using at the start but I saw myself get more and more confident with the software, thanks to the research I did and the problem solving I went through on the way. I had to do a lot of documentation for this project, which I never did before. But I had focused heavily on organisation at the start so this process was going smoothly once I got in a routine. It also allowed me to see the importance of documentation as it was my strongest resource when it came to report writing.

I also undertook another project in engineering called the EDT Gold award where a small group from my class worked on a real life problem presented by Cummins, I was grateful for this as it allowed me an insight of a career in engineering. I enjoyed the project as it challenged my problem solving skills and forced me to apply the knowledge that I gained in school in a real life scenario. Documentation was just as important in this project if not more important as a report that would be produced from a project like this may be recalled at a later date when a similar problem shows up, so we had to make sure we were thorough in covering all the aspects of our project in the report. This was the first project that I completed which needed so much teamwork, since everyone had their own role that they needed to perform in the group, so we needed to rely on each other substantially. My role was mainly to create visualisations of the concept ideas and anything else that needed to be made, this gave me a lot of experience with CAD and I had an advantage in CAD modelling compared to the rest of the group since my EPQ project used the same CAD software and gave me more experience. The main difference is the level or precision I needed to accomplish since for my EPQ I could just roughly guess everything whereas in this project I needed to be exact which was a big change for me which I had to adapt to.

Outside of school I also do a lot of sports, such as volleyball which has taught me a lot about teamwork as I am relying on my team to support me, however still ready to cover for them in case something happens. I have been regularly attending training sessions for over a year now and I can see my improvements, which makes the hard work worth it. This definitely taught me a lot about discipline because it was a regular commitment and I couldn't let myself become unreliable for other team members.
More recently I also picked up Tae Kwando (TKD) which also strengthened my discipline and also challenged my time management as I had to juggle training for both of my sports but also rest so I can perform my best at training. TKD challenged my way of thinking as I had to make effective decisions fast in the ring as to not get hit. Though I am only yellow belt, I spar with the black belts because of the weight group difference and I can hold my own against some individuals who are definitely more talented than me because of my ability to think on the spot. Since I am going up against more talented individuals so often I often get beaten, which definitely challenged and strengthened my resilience, but I TKD helped me realise that I need to get up and give it another attempt no matter how hopeless it seems. But I always try to figure out why I made that mistake and how I can improve because people there know how to land a hit so I need to avoid getting hit as much as possible. I found this skill very useful as it forces me to think of new ways around a problem rather than just doing the same thing over and over without any result.

I also work as a part time tutor mainly focusing on mathematics, this challenged my maths skills as I had to know the basics inside out to be able to explain them in a way that the student can understand, or change up the way I usually solve problems to make it easier for the student. So far I managed to help a student who was consistently getting a grade 3 in tests (relative to year 9) to a student who was able to solve grade 5 questions consistently (relative to year 11) and they are only starting year 10 so they still haven't covered most of the course, yet. I had to identify and cover the basics that were lacking from their knowledge and reteach some topics that were overlooked by the teacher or not understood properly by the student.

For my work experience I managed to land a place at Cummins thanks to the employee I met as part of my EDT project. During my week there I was able to experience the environment of an engineering company. All of the employees were very kind and answered my questions to the best of their abilities which helped me realise my interest in engineering  Since at this point I was also contemplating between computer science, but when I was given a problem to solve as part of an exercise I was able to optimise my design to it's fullest potential thanks to computer science, as I wrote a script to find the optimal dimensions for the I beam we were designing. This helped me realise that I don't need to abandon computer science and I can implement it while engineering to create better solutions. The person supervising me seemed surprised at this idea, so I realised it's something I can bring to the industry and use to solve problems in more efficient ways.