In addition to the A-levels I am studying I have completed an EPQ project where I was able to decide my own goal and work towards it over the course of a year. I taught me a lot about time and project management. I decided to keep organised from the start because I knew it would save me time in the future. The research I did made the problem solving seem a lot easier as I could apply the skills I saw in other people's work to my own problem. I had focus on documentation, which is something I never did before. But I had focused heavily on organisation at the start so this process was going smoothly once I got in a routine. It also allowed me to see the importance of documentation as it was my strongest resource when it came to report writing.
I also undertook another project in engineering called the EDT Gold award where a small group from my class worked on a real life problem presented by Cummins, I was grateful for this as it allowed me an insight of a career in engineering. I enjoyed the project as it challenged my problem solving skills and forced me to apply the knowledge that I gained in school to a real life scenario. My role was mainly to create visualisations of the concept ideas and any other supporting images, this gave me a lot of experience with CAD and I had an advantage in CAD modelling as my EPQ project used the same CAD software and gave me more experience. The main difference is the level or precision I needed to accomplish since for my EPQ I could just roughly guess everything whereas in this project I needed to be exact which was a big change for me which I had to adapt to.
For my work experience I managed to land a place at Cummins thanks to the employee I met as part of my EDT project. During my week there I was able to experience the environment of an engineering company. At this point I was still contemplating between computer science and engineering, but when I was given a problem to solve as part of an exercise I was able to optimise my design to its fullest potential thanks to computer science, as I wrote a script to find the optimal dimensions. This helped me realise that I would rather focus on computer science than engineering, as it's not something I can see myself doing every day.
Outside of school I also do a lot of sports, such as volleyball which has taught me a lot about teamwork as I am relying on my team to support me, however still ready to cover for them in case something happens. I have been regularly attending training sessions for over a year now and I can see my improvements, which makes the hard work worth it. It taught me a lot about discipline since it was a regular commitment and I couldn't let myself become unreliable for other team members. I enjoy the sport and regularly participate in matches and games where I am able to demonstrate my improvement.
More recently I also picked up Tae Kwando which also strengthened my discipline and also challenged my time management as I had to juggle training and studying. I often go up against more talented individuals and I often get beaten, which challenged and strengthened my resilience, but Tae Kwando helped me realise that I need to get up and attempt it again no matter how hopeless it seems. But I always try to reflect on my mistake and find out how I can improve. I found this skill very useful as it forces me to think of new ways around a problem rather than just doing the same thing over and over without any result.
I also often listen to a podcast called "The Darknet Diaries" where the host interviews people who have worked in cybersecurity or were involved in an incident and asks them about the details of the situation, I always found them interesting as to how they tackle the situation or infiltrate networks, obviously no methods were discussed, which has always left me curious and willing to find out more about the subject.